# Environmental Data Story Group Project

# Summary
This project aims to investigate the correlation between streamflow (measured in ft per month) and severe droughts in Lee's Ferry, Arizona. 

To accomplish this goal, we used Python to write code that would read grid data on streamflow in Lee's Ferry, from 1905 to 2017, as well as data showing the coverage/percentage of Arizona experiencing severe droughts, from 2000 to 2025.

From this data analysis, our code would generate two seperate figures of our data. Our Lee's Ferry figure also shows a trendline that indicates a decrease in average streamflow. And, our Arizona drought figure shows that a high coverage of Arizona has experienced severe droughts in the past few years, from about 2017 to 2025, suggesting that droughts will increase as streamflow decreases.

# Code Index
- EV_Data_Story_Project: [VS Code] Contains a function that opens and plots our Lee's Ferry Streamflow data, and labels it accordingly.
- EV_Data_Story_AZ_drought: [VS Code] Contains a function that opens and plots our Arizona drought data, extracts the correct variables, and plots and labels the data accordingly.
- Call_EV_Data_Story: [VS Code] This file was created to import the previous two, and call their functions so that the figures generated by the previous two files can be shown at the same time.

# Process to Generate Figures
To run the code for our Environmental Data Story Project, run the python file Call_EV_Data_Story.py. This file will call and run two functions that we made in the EV_Data_Story_Project.py and EV_Data_Story_AZ_drought.p files. You may also need to change the path of where the program will look the data, to make sure that the program works as intended.

Just in case, use this link to retrieve the Arizona drought data used for this project: https://www.drought.gov/historical-information?dataset=0&selectedDateUSDM=20251021&state=Arizona

Once here, make sure that the 'Time Period (Years)' tab has been updated to 2000 to 2025. Once that is done, you can click the 'All Downloads' tab, and chose to download the CSV file of this data. Once the data is downloaded, you might want to place it in the folder you want the program to open, in order to read the data.

# Generate AI Statement
A couple of times, we did do searches for guides on how to generate code that could potentially plot our two separate data sets in one figure, because we hadn't learned how to do it. Most of the time, we were given AI-generated results. We attempted to add the AI-generated code into our program, and altering it to match our files and variables. However, after multiple test-runs and alterations, this code didn't really help our program all that much, so most of it was scrapped. Though, the AI-generated code that we did find to show two figures at the same time did help us out.

Similarly, we searched how to add trendlines into figures, in Python. We again were greeted with mostly AI-generated search results. However, the AI-generated code that we had found was also not very helpful either, so we did a search for a source that could help us, like 'stack overflow'. Once we found a source like 'stack overflow' the code in these sources were very beneficial, and helped us successfully add a trendline to our Lee's Ferry data, at least.

Any other help on this assignment, we got from either our professor, or the QRC tutoring center.


